<h3 style="color: blue; text-align: left;">Research career</h3>
<style>
    tab1 { padding-left: 4em; }
</style>
<p style="text-align: justify;"><tab1><strong>Dr. Sunil</strong> is presently associated with the research group of <a href="https://epa.postech.ac.kr/body/body_3/body_3_1.html">Prof. Wonyong Choi</a> <a href="http://www.postech.ac.kr/eng/">(Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH)</a>, Republic of Korea as a Postdoctoral Researcher. He received his bachelor (Chemistry) and master (Pharmaceutical chemistry) degrees from <a href="https://www.mgu.ac.in">Mahatma Gandhi University</a>, Kottayam in 2006 and 2008 respectively. He joined <a href="http://www.indianspices.com">Spices Board of India</a>, Kochi, Kerala, as a trainee analyst immediately after receiving the master degree. During this tenure in spices board, he was involved in the analysis of various spices and spice products for different quality parameters. This work involves the use of highly sophisticated analytical instrumentation techniques including High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), Gas Chromatography (GC), Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy (AAS), LC-MS/MS etc. He joined as a project fellow (funded by UGC-DAE CSR, Kolkata) in the group of <a href="http://www.ctamgu.in/home/">Prof. C. T. Aravindakumar</a> (School of Environmental Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam) after a national level interview (2010). Later (2011), he became a Ph.D. student in the same institute under the joint guidance of Prof. Aravindakumar and Dr. G. Pramod (Principal, N.S.S. College, Nemmara).</tab1></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><tab1>Broad research interests of Dr. Sunil include free radical chemistry, analytical chemistry, mass spectrometry, ice chemistry, environmental chemistry etc. During the initial period of my Ph.D., he was mainly focused on the mechanistic investigation of environmentally and biologically relevant molecules (mainly Pharmaceutical and Personnel care products: PPCPs) by free radical reactions. Some of his works in this area include kinetic and mechanistic investigations on the oxidative transformation of Theophylline (<a href="http://pubs.rsc.org/-/content/articlehtml/2014/ob/c4ob00102h">Organic &amp; Biomolecular Chemistry 2014, 12, 5611-5620</a>), Diphenhydramine (<a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/slct.201600103/abstract">ChemistrySelect, 2016, 5, 924 – 933</a>), Fensulfothion (<a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045653512014385?via%3Dihub">Chemosphere, 2013, 91, 295–301</a>) etc. This work involves the extensive use of time-resolved spectroscopic techniques as well as various chromatographic and mass spectrometric techniques to elucidate unknown transformation products. In 2014, his work in this area was selected for “Dr. Hari Mohan memorial award” for the best poster in Trombay Symposium on Radiation and Photochemistry (TSRP 2014) held on January 6-9, 2014 at Mumbai, India. A few months later (October 2014), <a href="http://www.csir.res.in">Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)</a>, Govt. of India, awarded him with Senior Research Fellowship (SRF).</tab1></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><tab1>Dr. Sunil was also been involved in several collaborative research programs of Prof. Aravindakumar’s group with <a href="http://pagesperso.lcp.u-psud.fr/belloni/">Prof. J. Belloni</a> of Université Paris-Sud, Orsay, France (<a href="http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.3109/09553002.2014.899451">International Journal of Radiation Biology, 2014, 90, 495–502</a>) and <a href="http://lge.u-pem.fr/organisation-et-personnel/personnel/oturan-mehmet-ali/">Prof. M. A. Oturan</a> of Université Paris-Est, Marne-la-Vallée, France (<a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11356-014-2772-4">Environ Sci Pollut Res, 2014, 21, 8379–8386</a>; <a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs11356-017-9309-6">Environ Sci Pollut Res, 2017, DOI 10.1007/s11356-017-9309-6</a>), where his contributions were mainly on the elucidation of the transformation products derived from some biologically important molecules (e.g. hydroxy naphthoquinones, Amino salicylic acids etc.). Later, he collaborated with Prof. Olivier Laprévote of University Paris Descartes, Paris, France to develop an advanced mass spectrometry-based methodology to characterize position isomers, those are formed during the oxidative transformation of an environmentally relevant molecule, diphenhydramine (<a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jms.3607/full">J. Mass Spectrom., 2015, 50, 944–950</a>).</tab1></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><tab1>The last part of his PhD research mainly involves the investigation of environmentally relevant transformations in ice phase. This research has been conducted in Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), Republic of Korea, where he was associated with the research group of Prof. Wonyong Choi (Editor, Journal of Hazardous Materials, Elsevier &amp; Associate Editor, Environmental Science &amp; Technology, ACS publications) as an international visiting student (2014-15). In September 2015, Dr. Sunil joined as a Post-Doctoral Researcher in the same group with an aim to continue his work in ice chemistry. During this period, he was mainly engaged with investigating the dissolution of environmentally relevant ions involving Lead, Iron, and Zinc etc. in ice phase. His attention has been also gone to the dark phase production of hydrogen peroxide as well as humic-like substances in ice, which are considered as an extremely important process in the environment. Dr. Sunil is also interested in the screening, quantification, and development of suitable methods for the degradation of various pollutants which are extremely relevant in the present environmental scenario. Most of his works in this area has been done in collaboration with Dr. E. V. Ramasamy (School of Environmental Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam), where they quantified organochlorine pesticides in local Indian agricultural fields using GC (<a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs11356-016-7834-3">Environ Sci Pollut Res, 2017, 24, 969–978</a>). Very recently, Dr. Sunil collaborated with Dr. Cugmas Blaž (Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, Tržaška 25, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia) to study the optical stability of various Ink's (Applied Spectroscopy, manuscript under revision).</tab1></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><tab1>Dr. Sunil was also associated with a number of international conferences and workshops (Coordinator, ICMS 2013: Member of the local organizing committee, AOP 2010, AOP 2012, ICM 2011, ICM 2013 etc.) organized by Prof. Aravindakumar’s group. He also played an important role in the installation of Ion Chromatography (IC), HPLC, LC-Q-TOF, LC-MS, UV-Vis spectrometer etc. in the inter-university instrumentation center (IUIC) in which Prof. Aravindakumar acts as the Hon. Director. Besides his research activities, he was also interested in photography, photo designing, music (listening old Hindi songs) and sports (badminton, football, cricket etc.). He was always keen to learn new technologies (e.g. Android development, Linux operating systems etc). In his spare time, he likes to involve in the development of Android Operating system and other opensource platforms. His interests and contributions to the Android world have been found on this <a href="https://sunilpaulmathew.github.io/smartpack">page</a>.</tab1></p>

<h3 style="color: blue; text-align: left;">Research Interests</h3>

* Structural elucidation of metabolites/ degradation products of organic pollutants by High Resolution Mass Spectrometry (HRMS).
* Characterization of isomeric compounds by Energy-Resolved Mass Spectrometry (ERMS).
* Trace level detection of organic pollutants by tandem Mass Spectrometry.
* Advanced Oxidation Processes (AOPs) for the degradation of organic pollutants from water.
* Chemical transformations in ice phase.
* Fast kinetics of free radical reactions by Pulse radiolysis technique.

<h3 style="color: blue; text-align: left;">Awards & Honours</h3>

* Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Govt. of India (2014)
* “Dr. Hari Mohan memorial award” for the best poster in Trombay Symposium on Radiation and Photochemistry (TSRP 2014) held on January 6-9, 2014 at Mumbai, India
* Selected as an "International visiting student" by Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), Pohang, Republic of Korea, for a period of one year (2014)

<h3 style="color: blue; text-align: left;">Reviewer of Internationa journals</h3>

* Catalysis Today (Elsevier)
* Environemntal Science and Pollution Research (Springer)

<h3 style="color: blue; text-align: left;">Publications</h3>

<p><strong>Sunil Paul</strong>, M. M.; Aravind, U. K.; Pramod, G.; Aravindakumar, C. T., Oxidative degradation of fensulfothion by hydroxyl radical in aqueous medium. Chemosphere 2013, 91, (3), 295-301.</p>
<p>Sreekanth, R.; Prasanthkumar, K. P.; <strong>Sunil Pau1, M. M.</strong>; Aravind, U. K.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Oxidation Reactions of 1- and 2-Naphthols: An Experimental and Theoretical Study. J. Phys. Chem. A, 2013, 117 (44), 11261–11270.</p>
<p>Sreekanth, R.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M</strong>.; Aravind, U. K.; Marignier, J. L.; Belloni, J.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Oxidation reactions of hydroxy naphthoquinones: Mechanistic investigation by LC-Q-TOF-MS Analysis. International Journal of Radiation Biology. 2014, 90, 495-502.</p>
<p>Olvera-Vargas, H.; Oturan, N.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Sharma, V. K.;  Oturan, M. A.; Electro-oxidation of the Dye Azure B: Kinetics, mechanism and by-products. Environ Sci & Pollut Res. 2014, 21, 8379–8386.</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Aravind, U. K.; Saha, A.; Pramod, G.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Hydroxyl Radical Induced Oxidation of Theophylline in Water: A Kinetic and Mechanistic Study. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2014, 12, 5611-5620.</p>
<p>Pramod, G.; Swathy, V.; Luke, T. L.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Degradation of Dyestuff Pollutant Sudan I Using Advanced Oxidation Process. Journal of Water Resource and Protection, 2014, 6, 1276-1283.</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Laprévote, O.; Aravind, U. K.; Pramod, G.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Identification of Position Isomers by Energy Resolved Mass Spectrometry. J. Mass Spectrom., J. Mass Spectrom, 2015, 50, 944–950.</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Sreekanth, R.; Pramod, G.; Aravind, U. K.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Transformation Reactions of Radicals from the Oxidation of Diphenhydramine: Pulse Radiolysis and Mass Spectrometric Studies. ChemistrySelect. 2016, 5, 924-933.</p>
<p>Sruthi, S. N.; Shylesh Chandran, M. S.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Ramasamy, E. V.; Multiresidue analysis of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) in soil samples of Kuttanad agro-ecosystem-a tropical wetland of peninsular India. Environ Sci & Pollut Res. 2017, 24, 969–978.</p>
<p>Oturan, N.; Aravindakumar, C.T.; Olvera-Vargas, H.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Oturan, M. A.; Electro-Fenton oxidation of para-aminosalicylic acid: degradation kinetics and mineralization pathway using Pt/carbon-felt and BDD/carbon-felt cells. Environ Sci & Pollut Res. 2017, DOI: 10.1007/s11356-017-9309-6</p>
<p>Blaž, C,; Naglič, P,; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Pernuš, P.; Likar, B.; Problems with optical stability of inks used as absorbers in water-based turbid phantoms. Applied Spectroscopy. (Under revision).</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Lee, W.; Choi, W.; Ligand Specific Dissolution of Iron Oxide(s) in Ice: A comparitive study with water. (to be communicated to Environ. Sci. & Tech.).</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Daun, J.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Choi, W.; Accelerated Dissolution of Lead(IV) Oxide in Ice by Halides and its Environmental Implications. (Under Preparation).</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Nguyen, T. P.; Aravind, U. K.; Pramod, G.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Exploring the Mechanism of Diphenylmethanol Oxidation: A Combined Experimental and Theoretical Approach (Under Preparation).</p>
<p>Sreekanth, R.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Renjith, S.; Manojkumar, T. K.; Aravind, U. K.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Oxidation Reactions of Carbary in Aqueous Solutions. (Under Preparation).</p>
<p><strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Aravind, U. K.; Pramod, G.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Oxidative Degradation of Pharmaceutical Waste, Theophylline, from River Water. (Under Preparation).</p>
<p>Shoniya Thomas; Manoj, P. R.; <strong>Sunil Paul, M. M.</strong>; Aravind, U. K.; Aravindakumar, C. T.; Oxidative Degradation of Benzenesulfonic Acid by Hydroxyl Radical (Under Preparation).</p>
